=Videoclip

Videoclip is a video transcoding processor for Thoughbot's Paperclip plugin.
It allows you to easily transcode/resize video using FFMPEG.

==Installation

  script/plugin install git://github.com/thoughtbot/paperclip.git
  script/plugin install git://github.com/iamsolarpowered/videoclip.git

You'll also need FFMPEG installed, which isn't always straight-forward.
Sometimes it's downright frustrating. FFMPEG needs to be compiled with any codecs you
want to use (many of which aren't open source).

If you're using Ubuntu, this link should help https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ffmpeg .

==Usage

Usage is similar to image styles in Paperclip:

  class Episode < ActiveRecord::Base
    has_attached_file :video,
      :styles => {
        :mov        => {:size => '600x400', :format => 'mov'},
        :avi        => {:size => '600x400', :format => 'avi'},
        :thumbnail  => {:size => '150x100', :format => 'jpg'}
      },
      :processors => [:transcode]
  end

The <tt>:processors => [:transcode]</tt> bit is crucial.

<tt>:format</tt> is the only required parameter, and should be the extension of the
output file. FFMPEG will attempt to use some sensible defaults based on the extension.

See the wiki for a full list of options, or check out the +ffmpeg_options+ method
in lib/transcode.rb.

You can also pass in additional arguments with <tt>:options => 'FFMPEG OPTIONS'</tt>
if you like. See http://ffmpeg.mplayerhq.hu/ffmpeg-doc.html#SEC8 for details.
For example:

  has_attached_file :video,
    :styles => {
      :default_channel    => {:format => 'flv', :options => '-tvstd NTSC'},
      :alternate_channel  => {:format => 'flv', :options => '-vc 2 -tvstd NTSC'}
    },
    :processors => [:transcode]

How about another example? This will convert the uploaded video to a .mov with h.264
compression. (Beware, I haven't actually tested this. It might not come out well.)

  has_attached_file :video,
    :styles => {
      :mov => {
        :format         => 'mov',
        :video_codec    => 'libx264',
        :audio_codec    => 'libmp3lame',
        :bitrate        => '500k',
        :video_bitrate  => '408k',
        :audio_bitrate  => '92k'
      }
    },
    :processors => [:transcode]

==Limiations

* For the time being, transcoding is done before the object is saved. If there's an error, you'll get a warning similar to what you'd see if the object failed validation. Obviously, it would be nicer if transcoding were passed off to a queue instead. Stay tuned.

* 2-pass encoding isn't supported (yet).

* I highly doubt it'll work on Windows. If you've got a Windows box and a bit of patience, let me know.

==License

Released under the MIT license. Copyright (c) 2009 Ben Shymkiw.
A copy of the MIT license can be found in the MIT-LICENSE file.

==Misc.

This is my first publicly released plugin. If you have any suggestions, comments,
or if you find a bug, please drop me a line.
